# AD-alogrithms

Anisotropic diffusion (AD) is employed to enhance the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of Brillouin distributed optical fiber sensor. A Brillouin optical time-domain analyzer (BOTDA) with 99-km-long fiber under test is set up, where a section of 2.3 m and another 182 m section at the end of the fiber are heated for experimental verification. The SNR of experimental data sets with different sampling point numbers are enhanced to several improvement levels byADand three othermethods for comparison. Results showthat the 2.3msection and the temperature transition region of the 182msection are better preserved byADthan othermethods for the same SNR improvement. Objective criteria analysis shows that AD achieves the best measured spatial resolution and temperature accuracy among the four methods, the location of temperature transition can be detected more accurately for data with low SPNs afterADdenoising. In addition, the processing time ofADis 1/3 that of non-local means (NLM) and 6‰that of block-matching and 3D filtering (BM3D). The edge-preserving quality and fast processing speed allow the proposed algorithm to be a competitive denoising alternative for sensors based on Brillouin scattering.

You can refer to the paper provided above or the publication on IEEE Journal of Lightwave Technology [1] for more information.

[1]. Kuo Luo, Biwei Wang, Nan Guo, Kuanglu Yu, et al, Enhancing SNR by Anisotropic Diffusion for Brillouin Distributed Optical Fiber Sensors, IEEE Journal of Lightwave Technology, 38, 5844-5852 (2020).
